Our text highlights the fact
that we are at war with Satan.
War is defined
as “a state of hostility
“accompanied by actions
“to conquer or to destroy
those viewed as the enemy.”
And the context
of our text today at 1 Peter 5:8
talks about the type of enemy we have
—“a roaring lion,
seeking to devour someone.”
And that expression “roaring” denotes
“the howl of a beast in fierce hunger.”
So we have a real enemy.
And that’s why the words of Jesus
are so meaningful for us
when he gave the model prayer.
He said at Matthew 6:13:
“Do not bring us into temptation,
“but deliver
[or, the footnote, “rescue”] us
from the wicked one.”
Now, other Bible translations,
like the King James Version
or the Revised Standard Version,
use an expression like,
“Deliver us from evil.”
Or the Contemporary English Version says:
“Protect us from evil.”
But that doesn’t convey
the real fierceness of a real enemy, does it?
It’s more generic.
And so Jesus knew the Devil was real,
and he is a real enemy.
And the Devil has no remorse.
He’s fierce.
He has no pity.
He will take a person and,
with his traps and lures,
get him to do something
bad in Jehovah’s eyes,
and then the person is overcome with guilt.
And then, like a fierce enemy,
the Devil comes along and stomps on him
and makes him feel worse
because he caved in and sinned.
So how do we deal
with such a powerful enemy?
Well, in war, there are soldiers.
So let’s use an expression
that the apostle Paul used
to describe our situation.
Let’s open our Bibles, please,
to the book of 2 Timothy.
In 2 Timothy chapter 2,
we’re going to read verses 3 and 4
and talk for a few moments
about our being soldiers.
Second Timothy 2:3:
“As a fine soldier of Christ Jesus,
“take your part in suffering adversity.
“No man serving as a soldier
“involves himself
in the commercial businesses of life,
in order to gain the approval
of the one who enrolled him as a soldier.”
We become soldiers of Christ
when we accept Jehovah’s arrangements
for salvation through Christ Jesus
and we dedicate our lives to him unreservedly
for our entire life.
We become a soldier and, like a soldier,
we know that it’s not going to be easy.
There are going to be hardships and trials.
And yet, a fine soldier
—his main objective is to stay
loyal to his commanding officers
and to those who are giving instructions.
And likewise we know
it’s not going to be easy.
It’s not easy, but we have chosen
to become a soldier of Christ.
Now, a soldier,
like this loyal one being described,
is far different from a mercenary.
A mercenary is one
who hires himself out to fight,
but he may not have any devotion,
really, to the cause.
He’s a hired man,
and he’s doing it for the reward only
or for something else that he may gain.
But we’re not mercenaries.
We’re those with godly devotion,
wholly devoted to Jehovah
and loyal to Christ
so that we can be fine soldiers,
loyal and true.
Now, another aspect of soldiers
is that they are identified
by their distinctive uniforms
or their particular fighting equipment.
And that way, it helps to identify
who’s the friend and who’s the foe
in the middle of the battle.
Their appearance makes that possible.
Well, today,
there is a clear difference, isn’t there,
between the soldiers of Satan
and the soldiers of Christ?
There’s great enmity,
but there’s a sharp contrast
in appearance and attitude and disposition
and motivation and conduct.
And that’s why when we think about that,
we think about the contrast
between “the works of the flesh”
described in Galatians chapter 5
and those who have
the fruitage of God’s spirit.
There is such a strong distinction
between “one serving God
and one not serving him.”
And that’s why, too,
we think about the type of armor we bear.
Ephesians chapter 6 says:
“Put on the complete suit of armor from God.”
So our very armor is from God.
We do not use the tactics
and the methods of the Devil,
but we are clearly identified
as a soldier of Christ.
And there can be no gray area here;
we’re either on one side
or the other, correct?
For example, suppose that you’re a soldier,
and you’re on guard duty, and it’s evening,
and you see someone approaching,
and you cry out:
“Halt! Who goes there?
Friend or foe?”
and you hear back, “I’m both.”
There’s an enemy.
You can’t be on both sides.
Now, what is another aspect
of being a good soldier in this fight?
Well, let’s open our Bibles
to Philippians chapter 1,
Philippians chapter 1,
and we get to the concept of unity
and working closely together in peace,
because an army needs to be unified.
Philippians 1:27 says:
“Only behave in a manner
worthy of the good news about the Christ,
“so that whether I come
and see you or I am absent,
“I may hear about you and learn
“that you are standing firm in one spirit,
“with one soul
[and the footnote, or “with one accord”],
“striving side by side
for the faith of the good news,
“and in no way being
frightened by your opponents.
“This very thing is a proof
of destruction for them,
but of salvation for you;
and this is from God.”
Well, we have this matter of unity
—don’t we?—
shoulder to shoulder, side by side.
And yet, one of the tactics of the Devil
is to get us divided and disjointed
and fighting among ourselves.
To turn the enemy on itself
is a very effective war strategy.
Even Jehovah used that
—remember?—
against his enemies.
At 2 Chronicles 20:20-23,
there was the attack
“of Ammon, Moab,
and the mountainous region of Seir”
against Judah.
What did Jehovah do?
He confused them.
They struck down each other;
they helped destroy one another.
And the Devil, in a very sinister way,
uses that same approach.
How?
Well, if he can get us
to not get along with each other
and turn on one another,
then that’s a very effective tactic.
In fact, we remember the expression
at Ephesians 4:26, 27 about getting along:
“Be wrathful, but do not sin;
“do not let the sun set
while you are still angry;
do not give the Devil an opportunity.”
So when he sees discord and disunity,
he can really amplify that.
So we have to remember
who our real enemies are.
Now, our brothers may disappoint us;
they may frustrate us;
they may hurt us at times
because of imperfections.
But they’re not the enemy.
The Devil and his hordes
—they are the enemies.
So we don’t get to fighting
with the wrong person.
We keep in mind
that our brothers are with us.
And, in this connection
(we just read it
in that scripture in Philippians),
it talked about not being afraid.
And do you remember
something about being afraid
when it related
to a soldier in Israel’s army?
Deuteronomy 20:8 says:
“The officers should also ask the people,
“‘Who is fearful and fainthearted?
“‘He should return to his house,
so that he may not cause
his brothers to lose heart as he has.’”
Well, we do have an effect on each other.
Can you imagine being in Joshua’s army,
getting ready to battle,
and to your left is a soldier?
And as you’re about ready
to leave for battle,
he says to you:
“We’re going to die.
“We’re not going to come back.
Say goodbye to your family.
This is it.”
Or he may say,
“I’m not sure Joshua
has Jehovah’s backing like Moses did.”
All of that would be terrible.
And so anyone
in that category was to go home
because they would have
an effect on others.
How grateful, though, we are
that we have positive, courageous brothers
who trust in Jehovah,
examples in the Bible,
and also modern-day examples,
just like our brothers in Russia!
Well, as soldiers in this battle,
we’re ‘not ignorant of Satan’s designs.’
And yet, he studies us very carefully,
and he knows our weaknesses.
The September 1, 1988, Watchtower
had an article
“Stand Firm Against Satan’s Machinations,”
and in that, it said the Devil
knows what our weaknesses are.
But do we?
If we don’t identify them
and then correct them,
we will be defenseless at times.
But it takes honesty and humility
and an earnest desire
to address that which is bad.
Otherwise, we become a victim.
So we need to ask:
‘What are my weaknesses?
Do I identify them?
Do I work on them?’
And yet, with Jehovah’s help,
we can come off victorious in this battle.
First Peter 5:10 says
that ‘Jehovah will finish our training;
he will make us firm;
he will make us strong.’
So with Jehovah’s help, we can succeed.
So may we all continue
as fine soldiers of Christ,
trusting in Jehovah,
and win the battle
against the enemy—the Devil.